what makes trespass different than other
street art books is that it's not a
street art book it's a book that
certainly includes street art and
graffiti but goes beyond that to also
address performance protest sculpture
and the whole goal of the book was to
really look at the context of street art
in a much larger historical perspective
trespass is sort of a breaking down of
boundaries every now and then there is a
generation of artists which have a far
greater populist kind of reach that they
don't really want to preach to the choir
and that the beauty of doing something
illegal it's most of the location as you
want it then I'm going to give it to you
so taking risks to do stuff like that is
on the street I didn't really worth
thinking about this I was trying to do
my best to not get arrested we were
excited when Taschen agreed that the
topic could be broad and we were
thrilled to work with Taschen because of
the quality of their books their history
of having amazing images one of the most
emblematic images in the book is the
cover the classic image was Gordon
matta-clark doing this piece called
blowout a long long time ago back in the
70s where he went he shot out the
windows of his building in the Bronx we
were absolutely thrilled when Banksy not
only agreed to write the introduction
for the book but wrote such a wonderful
introduction a very funny introduction
and an introduction that without
question sets the tone for the pages
that are to come one of the interesting
things about the book is that it's
organized by theme it's not organized
chronologically or by artists so we have
themes like public memory private
secrets or rules of the game and in each
of those chapters we've combined
protests intervention art street art
graffiti really a smorgasbord of
interventions that
capture the theme of trespass I really
love Duke Riley's project in which he
made a submarine called the turtle and
he floated it out into New York Harbor
and it slowed the progress of the Queen
Elizabeth 2 and the Coast Guard got
really upset and not only took Duke
under custody but rammed the boat trying
to destroy it which it's not destroyed
it is preserved one of my favorite
pictures in trespass is a Philippe Petit
crossing the high wire between the the
towers and what I love about the
photograph is you wouldn't expect a book
to have Philippe Petit and fail and
Banksy all in in one book I do think
that Lee was one of the first of the
graffiti artists to use handball courts
for example and he saw those as big
blank spaces perfect for like canvases
and they were they were perfect city
canvasses there's a whole subculture of
guerrilla gardeners out there a great
example is Tijuana Gardens who as a
woman who's planting flowers in the
potholes on the main road in Tijuana to
beautify the neighborhood think the
common thread among all the artists in
the book no matter what they were doing
is that their urge to do it was more
powerful than any kind of rule or
regulation against doing it you take the
risk to put stuff as on the street you
can get arrested you take the risk to
see your piece being damaged on the next
day you take the risk to put it the
place the piece on the wrong spot you
know it's always something so you're
never going to please and also you take
the risk to put something what many
people is not going to like it so you
can you can have a ton of problem just
to putting stuff is on the street you
know there's a bit of trespass in all of
us and the thing that's so great about
these artists it's not for the sake of
trespassing of course there's a thrill
that we all admire and looking at these
artists especially a thrill because so
many of them are brave but they're also
doing it because there's a poignant
reason to do it because they believe in
free speech because they believe in art
ma cracy and because there are issues
that they feel are important to tackle
so to me some of these artists are not
in fact vandals but they're heroes